# Hashing, Hash Functions, and Hash Table

A **hash function** takes data and outputs a **hash**, a fixed-size string or number. 

We can think of a hash as a "fingerprint." We can trust that a given file will always have the same hash, but we can't go from the hash back to the original file. Sometimes we have to worry about multiple files having the same hash value, which is called a hash collision. 

Some uses for hashing:
+ Underordered maps. 
    + Suppose we want a vector-like data structure with constant-time lookups, but we want to look up values based on arbitrary "keys," not just sequential "indices." We could allocate a vector, and use a hash function to translate keys into vector indices. That is the basic idea behind an unordered map. 
+ Preventing man-in-the-middle attacks

## Hash Table
A hash table organizes data so you can quickly look up values for a given key. 

####Strengths
+ Fast Lookups
+ Flexible keys
####Weaknesses
+ Slow Worst-case lookups
+ Unordered
+ Single-directional lookups
+ Not cache-friendly


Function | Average Case | Worst Case
--- | --- | ---
space | $O(n)$ | $O(n)$
insert | $O(1)$| $O(n)$
lookup | $O(1)$| $O(n)$
delete | $O(1)$| $O(n)$

###In C++:
In C++, hash tables are called unordered maps. 

```cpp
unordered_map<string, int> lightBulbToHoursOfLight;
//make_pair() is probably the hashing function
lightBulbToHoursOfLight.insert(make_pair("incandescent", 1200));
lightBulbToHoursOfLight.insert(make_pair("compact fluorescent", 10000));
lightBulbToHoursOfLight.insert(make_pair("LED", 50000));
```

## When hash table operations cost $O(n)$ time

### Hash Collisions
If all our keys caused hash collisions, we would be at risk of having to walk through all of our values for a single lookup. This is unlikely, but could happen as the worst case. 

### Dynamic Array Resizing

Suppose we keep adding more items to our hash map. As the number of keys and values in our hash map exceeds the number of indices in the underlying array, hash collisions become more inevitable. 

To mitigate this problem, we could expand our underlying array whenever things start to get crowded. This requires allocating a larger array and rehashing all of our existing keys to figure out their new position - O(n) time. 

## Sets

A **set** is like a hash map except it only stores keys, without values. 

Sets often come up when we are tracking groups of items - nodes we have visited in a graph, characters we have seen in a string, or colors used by neighboring nodes. Usually we are interested if something is a set or not. 

In C++, sets are called unordered sets:

```cppp
unordered_set<string> lightBulbs;

lightBulbs.insert("incandescent");
lightBulbs.insert("compact fluorescent");
lightBulbs.insert("LED");

lightBulbs.find("LED");  // !lightBulbs.end()
lightBulbs.find("halogen");  // lightBulbs.end()
```

