# JavaScript

One way to insert JavaScript code into an HTML file would be:

```html
  <script src="javascript.js"></script>
```

## Variables

Variables are storage containers for data in the code. In JavaScript there are three ways to declare variables in code:
```js
var item1;
let item2;
const item3;
```
`let` and `const` are new ways to declare variables in JS, but it is better to use them as `var` can cause issues.

--- 

# Part 2 

## Strings
https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_obj_string.asp 

## Conditionals 
- some random stuff

--- 

# JavaScript Developer Tools
Legit just inspect element

## Functions
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Building_blocks/Functions 


## Principles of Clean Code 
1. Revise Your Code Before Coding
2. Clearly Expose the structure of the page 
  1. meaning label each class correctly with names that make sense
3. Use the Correct Indentation
4. Write Explanatory Comments
5. Avoid Abusing Comments, i.e. don't write
  1. "Will finish this later"
  2. "John coded this ask him"
  3. "This is a another math function"

Remember to write an author comment, the overall functionality of the piece of code, and quick notifications or labels to where changes where made.

6. Avoid extremely large functions and try to split them apart into smaller components
7. Use a naming standard for Functions and Variables
8. Avoid Indiscriminate Mixing of Coding Languages, i.e. do not use inline CSS and external CSS for the same project or place
9. Summarize your thoughts


## Comments 
Below is an example of a header comment:
```
'*************************************************
' Name: CopyString
'
' Purpose: This routine copies a string from the source
' string (source) to the target string (target).
'
' Algorithm: It gets the length of "source" and then copies each
' character, one at a time, into "target". It uses
' the loop index as an array index into both "source"
' and "target" and increments the loop/array index
' after each character is copied.
'
' Inputs: input The string to be copied
'
' Outputs: output The string to receive the copy of "input"
'
' Interface Assumptions: None
'
' Modification History: None
'
' Author: Dwight K. Coder
' Date Created: 10/1/04
' Phone: (555) 222-2255
' SSN: 111-22-3333
' Eye Color: Green
' Maiden Name: None
' Blood Type: AB-
' Mother's Maiden Name: None
' Favorite Car: Pontiac Aztek
' Personalized License Plate: "Tek-ie"
'*************************************************
```
Below is a link to the complete guide of self documenting code and good principles to use while writing things. (I should read it over and decide on a "stack" to use for all projects)

http://wiki.c2.com/?SelfDocumentingCode

## Installing Node.js
Node.js is a JavaScript runtime environment that allows you to run JavaScript outside of your web browser. 
// I do not really need it as I can just use Repl or some other code runner
## DOM Manipulation and Events
### DOM - Document Object Model
The DOM (or Document Object Model) is a tree-like representation of the contents of a webpage - a tree of “nodes” with different relationships depending on how they’re arranged in the HTML document.

```html 
<div id="container">
  <div class="display"></div>
  <div class="controls"></div>
</div>
```

You can use relational selectors in JavaScript to target specific items:
```js
const container = document.querySelector('#container');
// selects the #container div (don't worry about the syntax, we'll get there)

console.dir(container.firstElementChild);                      
// selects the first child of #container => .display

const controls = document.querySelector('.controls');   
// selects the .controls div

console.dir(controls.previousElementSibling);                  
// selects the prior sibling => .display
```

So you’re identifying a certain node based on its relationships to the nodes around it.

## DOM Methods 

When HTML code is parsed by your web browser it is converted to DOM and one of the primary differences that these nodes is that these nodes are objects -- having special methods/properties attached to them. 

### Query Selectors 
+ `element.querySelector(selector)` returns a reference to the first match of selector
+ `element.querySelectorAll(selectors)` returns a “nodelist” containing references to all of the matches of the selectors

One thing that is important to note is that when using `element.querySelectorAll(selectors)`, although the value returned looks like an array. It is not and is missing several array methods. To fix this you can do `Array.from()` to convert the node list into an array.

### Element Creation 

+ `document.createElement(tagName, [options])` creates a new element of tag type tagName. [options] in this case means you can add some optional parameters to the function. Don’t worry about these at this point.

```js
const div = document.createElement('div');
```
Using this element you can manipulate it (by adding styles, classes, ids, text, etc.) before placing it onto the page

### Append Elements 
+ parentNode.appendChild(childNode) appends childNode as the last child of parentNode
+ parentNode.insertBefore(newNode, referenceNode) inserts newNode into parentNode before referenceNode