# Midterm 1

## Question 1

**Reverse Polish Notation** (also known as postfix notation) is an unambiguous way of writing an arithmetic expression without parentheses. It is defined so that if $(exp1) * (exp2)$ is a normal fully parenthesized expression whose operation is $*$, then the postfix version of  this is "pexp1 pexp2∘", where pexp1 is the postfix version of exp1 and pexp2 is the postfix version of exp2. The postfix version of a single number or variable is just that number or variable. So, for example, thepostfix version of "((5 + 2) * (8 − 3))/4" is "5 2 + 8 3 − * 4 /". Write a program that uses a stack for evaluating an expression in postfix notation. Wherever possible, you should use the object-oriented design patterns discussed in class. You must implement:

+ A class named Stack that implements the stack ADT.
+ An RPNEvaluator class that uses your Stack class.
+ Your program must use this main method:

```cpp
int main() {
    std::string rpn_exp;
    std::cout << "Please enter an expression in RPN format: ";
    std::getline(std::cin, rpn_exp);
    RPNEvaluator rpn(rpn_exp);
    rpn.Evaluate();
    return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}

Example input: 5 2 + 8 3 − * 4 /
Expected output: Answer: 8.75

```

Each part of the input expression is separated by one or more spaces, and you can expect input to contain only integers and operators.


You must handle the following operators: + - * / If the input expression is malformed or contains input other than integers and operators, your program should output this string “Error: malformed expression”

---

## Question 2
>Al and Bill are arguing about the performance of their sorting algorithms. Al claims that his O(n log n)-time algorithm is always faster than Bill’s O(n2)-time algorithm. To settle the issue, they implement and run the two algorithms on many randomly generated data sets. To Al’s dismay, they find that if n < 100 the O(n2)-time algorithm actually runs faster, and only when n ≥ 100 the O(n log n)-time one is better. Explain why the above scenario is possible. You may give numerical examples

